Okay, so working with teams.
It's one thing if you're working
by yourself on a project,
your commit messages and things don't
have to be [LAUGH] that useful for teams.
And you can make all
the decisions you want.
But when you're working with other people,
there's some things you might wanna be
aware of with team concerns and processes.
So I have some ideas around
how to make this a team sport.
Because that's how we're gonna make
the biggest impact is if as many of us
are chipping in as possible.
So sort of the reality of some
of the accessibility efforts
that we put in are that we
have to have accountability.
We have to actually make
it a requirement and
make it part of the definition of done.
And so you have to kind of get your
leadership team on board if you can,
so that you have time to
actually spend on it.
I mean, this is gonna be
a negotiation in some cases where
it might have to get worked on
after a breaking change ships.
You might need to decouple fixes.
I had this come up the other day where I
really wanted to rip out a component that
was super inaccessible.
But there was a display bug that
I was trying to get the time,
the cycles to work on it.
I was having issues and so I'm gonna
have to decouple things, fix the display
issue and then come back in and the next
sprint and do the accessibility work.
So sometimes you don't get to
just rip it all out and do it.
You have to negotiate
how to make it part of
a definition of done
that people agree with.
Yeah, it's part of the reality
of doing this stuff sometimes.
And so part of this also is,
who takes responsibility if something
is inaccessible gets shipped?
We heard a story earlier about a lawsuit.
Those are super common, and so
sometimes those happen after things have
shipped that it's not a surprise at all
because you knew it was inaccessible.
And you tried to do something about it,
it's like, well,
who's held accountable for it?
It really should be the decision makers
that said, no, we are gonna ship it.
I hear you,
we're not gonna tackle it this cycle.
That person has to be held accountable.
So these things all come up,
it's not always pretty, but
we wanna document things
as much as possible.
Document your findings,
find what you tested at that time,
if you have to put it down, but
you've done some of the preliminary work,
keep your code in a branch, have some
documentation of what was the state of it.
So that if you do have to come back to it,
at least you're not totally starting over.
That can be helpful.
When you're doing code reviews,
this is a really great time to try and
get accessibility addressed in the moment,
cuz we don't wanna add to our debt.
I just accrued some accessibility debt
at my own job this week, it happens.
But when you're reviewing people's code,
that might be the time for
people to make some changes, and
hopefully, you can get stuff in at that
time and not have to come back to it.
There's sort of an art to how you provide
this feedback, cuz we want people
to want to work with us even though
we're the bearers of bad news sometimes.
We don't wanna make people feel bad
cuz we want them to fix their stuff,
so we have to be tactful.
[LAUGH] But
surface it at the right time like, hey,
we need to make this click event and
put it on a real button so
that a keyboard user can operate it.
That's one I see all the time,
where there's click events on divs.
And if they can't fix it right then,
then open up an issue
that will get put on the backlog and
make some good trouble over it.
We don't wanna be like, we're gonna be
squeaky wheel about it in the way that you
can in your own work context, but
we wanna make sure that things
don't just languish in the backlog and
never get done.
So you have to kind of find
that right balance of,
is this the right time to do it?
I understand the team's
under a lot of pressure,
how are we actually gonna make
sure that this gets fixed so
it doesn't just get shipped inaccessibly
and go out like that way forever?
Code reviews, and
then use consistent tooling and processes.
If you're all using the AX extension,
pay attention to what version it's on.
Make sure you're all updated, or in your
issues, if you've have AX results or
something, maybe document
what version the API was on.
That can be helpful to know so
that if something changes,
you have a track record of how you
tested it, even just how you tested it.
Tab into the page with a keyboard,
turn on the AX extension,
whatever stuff steps you took
to reproduce that issue,
put it in your issues,
in your pull requests.
I find people are very light on
documentation [LAUGH] in PRs,
or pull requests, or issues.
So just sharing what steps to take to
reproduce an issue in general can be super
useful.
And as you get into
accessibility maturity,
companies that are much more serious about
it and have to have more attention on it,
there are tons of tools by all of
the major accessibility companies that
you can sort of upscale into some of
those pages tools if you need to.
Question?
>> How much are we asked to estimate
when factoring in accessibility?
What percentage of additional
time should we consider adding?
>> Good question.
The figure that I heard working with
a very large tech company was around 30%.
And I think they were being kind of
generous about it just because they're
a big company.
It's a slow moving ship, there's always
delays and cost overruns in general.
So I think they were trying to be,
I don't know, sort of forgiving about it.
But that could be on the high end like 30%
of your time throughout the whole whole
process.
I mean, it does cost money to do it,
to cost time and money.
I think as developers, there are some
easy wins that we can do that should
just be part of our regular flow.
And 30% of our time, that seems a little
bit high if you're doing it all the time,
just as a matter, of course.
But it's kind of hard to quantify.
I will say that the cost of not
doing it would be way more.
If you have to rebuild your whole site,
how much is that gonna cost, or
the legal risk, or the lost revenue?
So some of that padded estimates up front
could be you're trading that time for
not having to redo everything later,
or missing out on a huge
contract because your competitor
is accessible and you aren't.
So kind of put it that way.
Would you rather plan it a little bit
up front and have it go more smoothly,
or just go cowboy style and we're just
gonna take a chance and not do anything?
Unfortunately, I think that's
what a lot of companies do.
But I think there's some easy wins that
we can work in even if our broader
organizations aren't
quite up to speed yet.
I mean, I'm the sort of just do it and
ask for forgiveness and
not permission type of person.
But this does take time,
work is work, it does take time and
effort, so we have to find that
balance that works best for us, yes.
>> On the team,
I built something that disabled
the cursor on localhost on Wednesdays and
it frustrated a lot of people, but
we found and fixed a ton of bugs.
>> Nice, round of applause for
that, that's amazing.
[LAUGH] l actually have
a tool that I wrote that's
kind of similar called No Mouse Days.
We might have it in the slide somewhere.
But there is a tool it
basically is that same idea of
having a package that would
automatically hide your cursor.
This will hide it in CSS in any site
that this package is included in,
if you configure it that way,
but yeah, it's frustrating.
But sometimes you have to take desperate
measures to really get through,
so that's amazing, good job.
[LAUGH] Okay, so
going beyond compliance, accessibility
compliance, and
I have a meme from Austin Powers of Dr.
Evil Goin,
our site is accessibility compliant.
And I can't tell you how often
I see this as a line item and
a doc of, we aim to meet WCAG 2.2 AA, and
then there's literally no
process to actually do it.
Click events on divs that ship and
I'm the only one in a PR review going,
can we change that?
You might be the only one even though
it's literally in your documentation.
So saying something is compliant and
actually making it accessible
are two totally different things.
And you can say it's compliant,
but it probably isn't, for one.
It might have been for a short period
of time before you made changes and
shipped it again.
So if you had a big audit and it was let
done months and months ago, it's probably
not relevant anymore if you're shipping
software regularly cuz things change.
And so when it was tested to where it is
now, it's probably not the same at all.
So we wanna go beyond compliance.
We wanna make a good experience and
it's something that we want
to work on iteratively.
We're always like, we're improving
any kind of bugs, or any kind of
software features, accessibility is
just part of that process all the time.
That's how it's gonna
be the most successful.
So I wanna kind of get past compliance,
especially when it comes to
the web content accessibility guidelines,
which are great.
But they're just a starting point.
It's all about, is the experience good?
So a better way to think about this,
I mentioned it being a constant work in
progress and something that we iterate on.
But it also needs to
be part of the design.
It needs to be part of your product DNA,
and
the earlier you incorporate that,
the better.
Mostly cuz depending on
how your work gets done,
design might have been way earlier and
you can't change it now.
So if we have issues with contrast or
font readability or
things that are more
visual characteristics.
That's stuff that,
that ship has sailed long ago, and
you can only fix so much as a developer.
That's design debt right there,
turning into accessibility debt.
So we wanna make changes as often and
as early as we can.
If you can put an accessibility
statement on your website,
that could be really helpful.
It gives people with disabilities a way
to contact you if they do have an issue,
and it's a really great
tool to have to say,
hey, these are the standards
we're aiming to meet.
We're working on it.
You don't wanna be like,
we nailed it, we're great.
Just putting the statement here to say,
we're compliant, that's not the goal.
The goal is to say, hey,
this is what we're trying to do,
we're continually working on this,
if you find an issue, please tell us.
Cuz those feedback comments are gifts,
they really are helpful.
And so you wanna give people a way to
email you or chat with you and tell you.
Cuz they might be in
a combination of browser and
screen reader that wasn't
at the top of your list.
So maybe they could help you
identify a super blocking issue that
you just weren't aware of.
So accessibility statements
are really great for that.
And then don't stop at tooling,
just like Lighthouse and AX saying,
okay, zero issues, 100%, you're good.
That may not be the full picture.
There's a great article that I
linked to my slides called Building
the Most Inaccessible Site Possible
with a Perfect Lighthouse Score
by Manuel Matusovich.
And he highlights perfectly this problem
that you could have a clean bill
of health with an automated tool but
it could still be terrible.
So there's some links in here
to read a little bit later.
I would like to dive
into actual debugging.
Be ready for that.